---
layout: post
title: BASH tips
category: bash
---

<div class="message">
  <cite> "Why are you bashing your head against the wall?  Because it feels so good when I stop." </cite>
</div>

## BASH Tips

If you are like most of us in the USA and grew up with Bill Gates/Microsoft/Windows, coming to the UNIX world is quite
a change.  My first exposure was my MAC.  But after awhile, you realize its just better.

I even have linux set up on my laptop, and switch distros often just to marvel in the creativity and designs.

Anyway...this section is a repository of BASH stuff I have picked up which can be frustrating at times.

### [] && || source

Often times in bash scripts it is quite common to  see these all over the place...how do you read them?

In Bash the [ is a builtin command as well as an executable. [[ is just a keyword to Bash.
Very similar to what we see in ruby, where they are methods.

At terminal you can do the following to see it:
{% highlight c linenos %}
type -a [

{% endhighlight %}

What about && and || which you see quite often?  I used to think they were "and" and "or" but not exactly.

They ARE operators with the following rules:

<cite>
The right side of && will only be evaluated if the exit status of the left side is zero.
|| is the opposite: it will evaluate the right side only if the left side exit status is nonzero.
 You can consider [ ... ] to be a program with a return value.
If the test inside evaluates to **true, it returns zero**; it returns nonzero otherwise.
</cite>

They are often put together to basically make logic in bash files:
From the bash man page
<cite>
test expr
[ expr ]
          Return a status of 0 or 1 depending on the evaluation of the
          conditional expression expr.  Each operator and operand must be
          a separate argument.  Expressions are composed of the  primaries
          described  above  under  CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS.   test does not
          accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore an argument of
          -- as signifying the end of options.
</cite>

### source command
. (source or dot operator meaning you can use a . instead of the word source!)

Read and execute commands from the filename argument in the current shell context.

### double dash '--'
In bash the '--' double dash is used to signify the END of command options which are normally preceded by '-' a single dash


### export
'export' creates an environmental variable which can be inherited by child processes

